In computing terms, a firewall is a software or hardware based network security system that controls
the incoming and outgoing network traffic by analyzing the data packets and determining whether they
should be allowed through or not.
This is based on an applied rule set in easy terms.
A firewall is simply a filter that checks packets or requests coming into or out of your server.
We are going to lock the server down and only open the ports that are absolutely necessary.
We are going to open the following ports on our server.
S.H., which is Port 282 HTTP Port 80 https, which is Port 443 and Paing on a Linux server.
The firewall is managed by the utility IP tables.
IP tables allows you to create rules to manage the traffic coming from or coming to your server.
Unfortunately, creating IP table rules is an error prone task that can become complex.
Due to this, we are going to make use of an IP tables.
A rapper called Uncomplicated Firewall, or UFW.
UFW makes adding firewall rules to your server a simple task.
Please ensure you are logged into your server.
All commands related to UFW by administrative commands.
You need to use SUDA prior to typing the command to confirm if UFW is installed.
You need to type sudo UFW status verbose status inactive.
If you receive the message command not found, you would need to install UFW to install UFW sudo ept.
We are using our package manager.
What do we want to do with the package manager?
We want to install the name of the package we want to install is UFW.
UFW is already the newest version.
I've not come across any Ubuntu twenty point zero for server release that does not contain the package
UFW.
Now we need to set up what are called the default policies.
The default policies are to deny all incoming connections and allow all outgoing connections.
This means anyone trying to reach our server will not be able to connect to our server.
And at the same time, any package that we have installed on our server would be able to connect to
the outside world.
So now we must set up this default policy.
The default policy denies all incoming requests to our server and allows all outgoing requests from
our server sudo UFW.
We are setting up the default policy default we want to deny.
And what do we want to deny?
All incoming connections sudo UFW default deny incoming.
Now we need to sit the outgoing policy sudo UFW default.
Allow outgoing.
Those are our default rules, allow all outgoing connections, deny all incoming connections, but there's
a problem with that policy servers need to respond to incoming requests from outside users.
We want to be able to access to our server on Port 20 to our server, must respond and allow us to connect
to our server.
Currently, we would not be able to do that because we are denying all incoming connections.
So what we need to do is we need to set up rules that will allow both incoming and outgoing connections
on our server.
We are going to limit this to HTTP and all other ports and services will not respond to requests.
Sudo uff w we want to allow.
What do we want to allow?
Firstly, a search.
We can pressure up Iraqi to repeat the command, remove S.H..
We want to allow htp, you can pressure up Iraqi.
We also want to allow each Tepes so you need to type sudo ufw allow its S.H. Sudo UFW, allow HGP and
Suda UFW allow each Tepes Ping is enabled by default with UFW so we don't need to allow paing.
So now your server will respond to requests for services on those three ports for twenty two point eighty
import for three.
All other ports are closed and will not respond to requests.
Now we need to enable these rules that we have added.
We also need to ensure that UFW will start on a server reboot and apply these rules that we have set.
In other words, we want our rules to persist after a server reboot sudo UFW and we want to enable command
may disrupt existing S.H. connections.
Proceed with operation.
Yes, firewall is active and enabled on system startup.
When we started setting up our firewall, we typed sudo UFW status, verbose status, active default,
deny incoming, allow outgoing board to any to allow in port at allow in port forfour three.
Allow in.
Those are our rules.
Now we need to confirm that these rules will persist after a server reboot to reboot your server sudo
reboot connection to close by remote host connection to closed.
Give your server a few minutes to reboot and you can log into your server using your alias in my case,
SSL, which opened to enter passphrase to unlock my private key.
I'm going to type clear pressure up Iraqi until you find the command to do UFW status, verbose status,
active ports.
Twenty two and 443 allow in.
So our firewall rules have persisted after a reboot for the purposes of this course.
That's the firewall configuration taken care of.